https://searchapparchitecture.techtarget.com/definition/object-oriented-programming-OOP
## object-oriented programming (OOP)

OOP is to identify all of the objects a programmer wants to manipulate and how they relate to each other.
OOP 是关注编程者所操纵的所有对象，还有这些对象之间的关系。

Simply put, OOP focuses on the objects that developers want to manipulate rather than the logic required to manipulate them. This approach to programming is well-suited for programs that are large, complex and actively updated or maintained. 
简单来说，OOP关注编程者操纵的对象，而不是操作他们的逻辑。

## Principles of OOP （OOP的原则）
Object-oriented programming is based on the following principles:

- Encapsulation- The implementation and state of each object are privately held inside a defined boundary, or class. Other objects do not have access to this class or the authority to make changes but are only able to call a list of public functions, or methods. This characteristic of data hiding provides greater program security and avoids unintended data corruption.
封装性，每个对象的状态被封装为私有。其他的对象只拥有读取封装类暴露的共有方法。保证了安全性，避免了无意识的数据污染。

- Abstraction- Objects only reveal internal mechanisms that are relevant for the use of other objects, hiding any unnecessary implementation code. This concept helps developers make changes and additions over time more easily.
抽象性，对象只会暴露和其他对象有关的内部机制，隐藏非必要的。

- Inheritance- Relationships and subclasses between objects can be assigned, allowing developers to reuse a common logic while still maintaining a unique hierarchy. This property of OOP forces a more thorough data analysis, reduces development time and ensures a higher level of accuracy.
继承性

- Polymorphism- Objects are allowed to take on more than one form depending on the context. The program will determine which meaning or usage is necessary for each execution of that object, cutting down on the need to duplicate code.
多态性

Object-oriented programming languages
Java
JavaScript
Python
C++
Visual Basic .NET
Ruby
Scala
PHP

## Criticism of OOP（对OOP编程方式的争议）
The idea of object-oriented programming has been criticized by developers for multiple reasons. The largest concern is that OOP overemphasizes the data component of software development and does not focus enough on computation or algorithms. Additionally, OOP code may be more complicated to write and take longer to compile. Alternative methods to OOP include functional programming, structured programming  and  imperative programming, but most advanced programming languages give developers the option to combine them.
受到争议的有多个方面：
- 最主要的是过分强调数据组件不关注计算和算法
- 编译时间长

替换OOP编程思想的其他可选项：
- functional programming
- structured programming
- imperative programming