## git status
显示当前已经变更了的文件

## git add
- git add . ：他会监控工作区的状态树，使用它会把工作时的所有变化提交到暂存区，包括文件内容修改(modified)以及新文件(new)，但不包括被删除的文件。

- git add -u ：他仅监控已经被add的文件（即tracked file），他会将被修改的文件提交到暂存区。add -u 不会提交新文件（untracked file）。（git add --update的缩写）

- git add -A ：是上面两个功能的合集（git add --all的缩写）


## git diff
git diff master develop 对比2个分支之间的变化
```
diff --git a/config/router.config.js b/config/router.config.js
index 04b243d..2b098e3 100644
--- a/config/router.config.js
+++ b/config/router.config.js
@@ -41,6 +41,11 @@ export default [
             name: 'workplace',
             component: './Dashboard/Workplace',
           },
+          {
+            path: 'comments',
+            name: 'comments',
+            component: './Dashboard/Comments',
+          },
         ],
       },
 
diff --git a/src/locales/zh-CN.js b/src/locales/zh-CN.js
index 9d337c4..e664022 100644
--- a/src/locales/zh-CN.js
+++ b/src/locales/zh-CN.js
@@ -78,10 +78,11 @@ export default {
   'component.noticeIcon.cleared': '清空了',
   'component.noticeIcon.empty': '暂无数据',
   'menu.home': '首页',
-  'menu.dashboard': 'Dashboard',
+  'menu.dashboard': '数据面板',
   'menu.dashboard.analysis': '分析页',
   'menu.dashboard.monitor': '监控页',
   'menu.dashboard.workplace': '工作台',
+  'menu.dashboard.comments': '点评',
   'menu.components': '组件库',

git diff HEAD^  与上次 commit 之间的差别


```

## reset
git-reset - Reset current HEAD to the specified state

git reset [<mode>] [<commit>]

This form resets the current branch head to <commit> and possibly updates the index (resetting it to the tree of <commit>) and the working tree depending on <mode>. If <mode> is omitted, defaults to "--mixed". The <mode> must be one of the following:
--soft
Does not touch the index file or the working tree at all (but resets the head to <commit>, just like all modes do). This leaves all your changed files "Changes to be committed", as git status would put it.

--mixed
Resets the index but not the working tree (i.e., the changed files are preserved but not marked for commit) and reports what has not been updated. This is the default action.

If -N is specified, removed paths are marked as intent-to-add (see git-add[1]).

--hard
Resets the index and working tree. Any changes to tracked files in the working tree since <commit> are discarded.

--merge
Resets the index and updates the files in the working tree that are different between <commit> and HEAD, but keeps those which are different between the index and working tree (i.e. which have changes which have not been added). If a file that is different between <commit> and the index has unstaged changes, reset is aborted.

In other words, --merge does something like a git read-tree -u -m <commit>, but carries forward unmerged index entries.

--keep
Resets index entries and updates files in the working tree that are different between <commit> and HEAD. If a file that is different between <commit> and HEAD has local changes, reset is aborted.