[What really happens when you navigate to a URL](http://igoro.com/archive/what-really-happens-when-you-navigate-to-a-url/)

1. You enter a URL into the browser
2. The browser looks up the IP address for the domain name
The first step in the navigation is to figure out the IP address for the visited domain. The DNS lookup proceeds as follows:

   - Browser cache – The browser caches DNS records for some time. Interestingly, the OS does not tell the browser the time-to-live for each DNS record, and so the browser caches them for a fixed duration (varies between browsers, 2 – 30 minutes).
   - OS cache – If the browser cache does not contain the desired record, the browser makes a system call (gethostbyname in Windows). The OS has its own cache.
   - Router cache – The request continues on to your router, which typically has its own DNS cache.
   - ISP DNS cache – The next place checked is the cache ISP’s DNS server. With a cache, naturally.
   - Recursive search – Your ISP’s DNS server begins a recursive search, from the root nameserver, through the .com top-level nameserver, to Facebook’s nameserver. Normally, the DNS server will have names of the .com nameservers in cache, and so a hit to the root nameserver will not be necessary.
3. The browser sends a HTTP request to the web server
	```
	GET http://facebook.com/ HTTP/1.1
	Accept: application/x-ms-application, image/jpeg, application/xaml+xml, [...]
	User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 8.0; Windows NT 6.1; WOW64; [...]
	Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
	Connection: Keep-Alive
	Host: facebook.com
	Cookie: datr=1265876274-[...]; locale=en_US; lsd=WW[...]; c_user=2101[...]
	```
4. The server ‘handles’ the request
5. The server sends back a HTML response
6. The browser begins rendering the HTML
7. The browser sends requests for objects embedded in HTML
   
	 - Images
	
	 - CSS style sheets
		
	 - JavaScript files
8. The browser sends further asynchronous (AJAX) requests